Yes, Time and Attendance software is the only way out to manage attendance efficiently and prevent the loss. The most valuable asset to any successful company is their workforce. Yet many companies still utilize out-dated and unreliable methods in time – attendance management incurring losses although they spend a fortune for the purpose.

 

Advantages of Time Attendance Management in AttendHRM

Time saving
Manage critical employee information easily
Easy work force scheduling
Monitoring the attendance efficiently
Monitoring absence, leaves, overtime, late comers, early goers etc
Monitoring employee’s performance
Integrate with payroll for easy and faster payroll processing
Integrate with biometric/swipe card devices to generate attendance information automatically
With all the above features and advantages, AttendHRM-Time and Attendance software is the best solution for managing attendance efficiently. It will be a one-time investment for life long usage.

Attendance management is the act of managing attendance or presence in a work setting, which maximizes and motivates employee attendance thereby minimizing loss. If you are on loss due to employee downtime, then it is time to opt for a good time attendance managing system.

A few reasons to implement an attendance management software:

 

1. Saves you lots of time and money

Managing attendance manually is a very tedious and time-consuming process. As the number of employees grow the task becomes quiet more exhausting. Similarly, the entire operation can also prove to be very costly in case you decide to hire a professional agency for this purpose. By using a attendance management software, all this can be automated.

 

2. Promotes optimal and consistent attendance at work

Once you start using time attendance management software, you have each employees work record for every minute. That is you have the exact performance record for each employee. This in turn ensures the employees maintain consistent performance i.e. attendance.

 

3. Ensures proper utilization of the human resource capital

Manual employee scheduling is another hassle in attendance management. Proper allocation of manpower to different departments and fields of work is really important for a good outcome. This can be made possible by using employee scheduling or work planning incorporated with a good attendance management software.

 

4. Ensures maximum productivity

Ensuring that every single minute of constructive work is recorded and rewarded properly will act as a motivation for the employees who will then strive to put in greater efforts and hence enhance the overall productivity of your business.

 

A good time attendance management software can automate the following for you:

1. Accumulate the attendance data for each employee from the time attendance device.
2. Automatically mark in time, out time, overtime, late entries, early outs, absence, leaves etc.
3. Overtime, work time and leave management.
4. Load attendance data into payroll software for payroll processing
5. Generate reports on attendance, leave, overtime, holiday and so on.
6. Efficient work planning/scheduling for employees.

An automated attendance management software will not only make the entire process simple, it will also provide a well-structured and analyzed report of the pattern of employee attendance and time management, which can further help you in allocating and using the human resources in your organization to the maximum possible benefit.
Attend HRM is an HR software that can automate all these and much more. You can download a free version of Attend HRM from http://www.lenvica.com.
Lenvica supplies comprehensive Human Resource Software Solutions for complete HR Management. With years of experience specializing in development of HR software, the Lenvica software portfolio include Attendance Software, Payroll Software, Leave Management, Shift Management, Project Management solutions, developed to solve complex HR software needs of small to large organizations.
